[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: And
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Were the Great Pyramids
just simple tools?
Or could they be a
holistic energy device
that pairs with the Earth
and its inhabitants?
Chris Dunn, who has
worked at every level
of high-tech manufacturing
for 52 years,
has researched this topic
since the publication
of his first book back in 1998.
And he will talk with
us about his theory
and the new discoveries
that have been
made about the Great Pyramid.
Chris, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>CHRIS DUNN: It's good
to be here, George.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in all this?
How did this start for you?
>>DUNN: Well, it started
out with an interest
in general things Egyptian.
And like everybody else on the
planet going through school,
I learned that the pyramids
were tombs for pharaohs.
But then I picked up a
book by Peter Tompkins--
"Secrets of the Great Pyramid."
And I realized that there
were quite a few people
in the world who
question that theory
and that actually tried
to offer their own.
>>NOORY: Now, when you
came out with that theory
that it could have
been a power plant,
it was pretty
controversial, wasn't it?
>>DUNN: It was.
It's still controversial--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>DUNN: --in some circles.
It's been accepted a
little more after being
published for 20 years.
But the surprising
thing to me is
that there is a huge interest
in ancient technologies
or advanced ancient technologies
in Egypt by the Egyptians.
And they are now looking
at this with some pride
in their culture,
that their ancestors
were more advanced than what
they were previously taught.
>>NOORY: What was that
fundamental area that
got you to believe that the
pyramids could very well be
power plants?
>>DUNN: Well, it was actually
the engineering description
of the pyramid, the
structure itself
and how it was
crafted, the precision,
and when you consider that you
have the largest building that
has ever been built on the
planet that covered 13 acres.
And the 13 acres was leveled
within 7/8 of an inch.
And then you have
blocks of casing stones
that are within
10/1000 of an inch.
That's like half the
thickness of a thumbnail.
And that's how precise they are.
And then the shafts--
everything about the Great
Pyramid inside and out.
Not just the Great Pyramid,
but other pyramids, too.
They show a real high order
of manufacturing precision.
>>NOORY: Truly
remarkable that we almost
can't duplicate today.
>>DUNN: It would be
difficult. I mean, as far
as the manufacturing of it, the
cutting of precise artifacts,
we do have those capabilities.
The construction of it, I
think, will be a real challenge.
Some people say that it would be
almost impossible to do today--
other people.
>>NOORY: I mean, so we
have two areas here.
One is, of course,
is it a power plant?
And what was it used for?
I mean, who needed power?
For what?
And then also, how in the
heck they built these things.
I mean, so there are two
complex questions there.
>>DUNN: Well, yes.
I mean, it's when
you start looking
at the schematics
of the Great Pyramid
and the unusual interior design.
It has no-- it doesn't
represent any kind of structure
or building where people would
spend any time in at all.
I mean, it's almost
inaccessible to human traffic.
And of course, the original
tomb theory-- there
were no mummies found
in the Great Pyramid,
no original mummies found in
any pyramid for that matter.
But for me, it was more of
the engineering precision
that spoke of a
civilization that
had a state of the art that was
much higher than what we have
give them credit for
and even challenges
our own state of the art
in terms of manufacturing
precision.
>>NOORY: Chris, as
we get into this--
and we're going to get into
it in a big way on the program
today.
Jonny Enoch, who appeared on
one of our "Beyond Belief"
programs, talked about your
theory of the power plant.
>>DUNN: Oh.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- If I could tell you a story,
when we were in Egypt not too
long ago, I stayed with my
friend, the great hieroglyphics
expert and Egyptologist
Mohamed Ibrahim.
And we were at this
temple called Edfu.
Now, the original temple where
the Atlantis story came from
was known as Nefru.
It was on the Nile delta.
And we're told it was
washed away and destroyed.
The great story was
upon the wall there.
But when we go to Edfu and
you look upon the temple,
we see a great seafaring people.
But what we see above
them is rather alarming.
We see a great serpent come
down from the heavens that
is destroying them.
- Where it looks like
a comet or something?
- Yes.
But in the mysteries,
the serpent
always represented energy
or electromagnetic energy.
So therefore, I believe,
from what I've seen,
and I know you've seen
this evidence before, too,
that when we look at
the Great Pyramid,
especially using Chris
Dunn's Giza power plant
hypotheses on how we see it
built like a Faraday cage,
we see the granite,
sandstone, limestone.
It's a technology.
It's a power plant.
We see these obelisks acting
like transmitters for energy,
that I believe they
were experimenting
with electromagnetic
energy and gravity
much how we're playing
around with HAARP now.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Chris, what do you
think of Jonny's thoughts?
>>DUNN: Well, I agree with
him and very well spoken.
The electromagnetic energy as--
I would modify a little
bit and say that they
weren't just experimenting.
They had mastered tapping
into electromagnetic energy
and using
electromagnetic energy.
>>NOORY: Now, what were
they using all this for?
>>DUNN: Just like
us-- civilization.
I would say that if you have a
source of energy and you have--
the output of that
is electricity,
electromagnetic energy.
Then you can use it for whatever
you have the genius to invent.
>>NOORY: Well.
what kind of things
do you think they had then,
which would have required
that kind of power?
>>DUNN: When you look
at a worldwide system
and the fundamental function
of the Great Pyramid,
it's not just about
electromagnetic energy.
I mean, that is the goal
to actually generate that.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>DUNN: But it's also relieving
stresses in the Earth.
So it's multi-functional.
And it allows you to relieve
stresses in the Earth
so that it would eliminate
the destruction of earthquakes
if you could take that
energy and just release it
over periods of time.
>>NOORY: Almost like
a pressure cooker.
Let the steam out.
>>DUNN: Right.
But then as far as
the kind of products
or the kind of
inventions or devices
that they needed to power,
it's clear throughout Egypt
that they were using very, very
large machines, mega machines.
>>NOORY: Where'd they go?
>>DUNN: Where did they go?
>>NOORY: Where are they?
>>DUNN: That is a good question.
Yeah.
I mean, that is a
perennial question.
And it's a thorny question.
And answering it-- all
you can do is speculate.
>>NOORY: I mean, is
it conceivable that
extraterrestrials were part
of this equation in that
the machinery and whatever
apparatus they knew that needed
the power source for--
they took back with them
and left the planet?
>>DUNN: Well, I know that even
today when a project started
out, an engineering project--
you'll bring specialists
in from the outside.
They'll bring their
specialized tools.
They'll complete the project.
Then they'll pack their
tools up and leave.
I know that the idea
that extraterrestrials
had some effort.
Those were able to assist and
help is a very popular idea.
Another idea is I think a
little bit more down to Earth.
And that is if we push that
civilization further back
in time which are--
from my conversations in Egypt,
they're now looking at that.
Because they are accepting that
their ancestors were much more
advanced.
But they see that
between the old kingdom
or the Egyptian
pharaohs and what
they were capable of
doing with their tools--
that they wouldn't be
able to create what
we see in Egypt on the ground.
And so they're looking at a gap
or some cataclysm that happened
maybe 10, 12, 15,000 years ago.
And if that's the
case, then what
products would survive
that we have made,
all that we use over 10,000
years if suddenly everything
stopped for us?
And that is a scenario
that has been discussed.
Television programs
have been created on it.
>>NOORY: Could they
have been powering UFOs?
>>DUNN: I think that they could
power whatever they wanted to.
And so if they had aerial
craft, which I don't put limits
on the ancient Egyptians on
what they were able to do,
all the pyramid builds and
what they were able to do.
So if you look at
the Great Pyramid,
it's a total out of place
artifact in history,
in time, where it is so
advanced even by our standards.
It's so advanced that
even by our standards,
we look at what we
have surrounding
our very large structures--
power plants, things like that.
And we have a whole
infrastructure.
Right now in Egypt,
we're just looking
at the skeleton of a
advanced ancient civilization
and actually filling
in the blanks
while putting flesh and--
>>NOORY: Trying to
fill in the blanks.
>>DUNN: Trying to fill in the
blanks to put the rest of it
together.
We're not left with
that much, really,
except what they crafted with
their hands and their machines
and what they imprinted
on their temples.
>>NOORY: Chris, those who are
skeptical of your power plant
theory--
what do they say?
What's their biggest argument?
>>DUNN: Well, I think there
is a resistance to considering
the idea that the
civilization is--
our civilization is mortal.
And past civilizations
have reached great heights
only to be destroyed.
And more classical
trained scholars
would reject the idea of
a cyclical history, where
you go back in time
and you find that there
was a high civilization.
They reject that.
Because everything
that they have based
their history on
is what they find
in their archaeological record.
>>NOORY: Now, acoustics seem
to be very important here, too.
Tell me why.
>>DUNN: Well, acoustics-- I
mean, acoustics is energy.
You can-- vibration.
The use of acoustics in the
Great Pyramid and the phenomena
surrounding how sound moves
within the Great Pyramid
has been recorded.
Or you have anecdotal
information going back
to the time of Napoleon.
And so a lot of people, a
lot of travelers, explorers,
researchers who have
visited the Great Pyramid
have noticed that there is a
very unusual acoustic effect
inside the Great Pyramid.
>>NOORY: Is it sound
resonance, too?
Is that one and the same?
>>DUNN: Well, yes.
Yeah.
I mean, the sound and
acoustics is the same thing.
But the sound is--
in the Giza power
plant theory, it
explains the reason
for the giant granite
beams above the king's chamber.
And it's theorized that
those beams were actually
tuned to respond
to sound generated
within the Great Pyramid.
>>NOORY: Our friend,
Steve Halpern,
who is a great musician, has
put together acoustical sounds
from the Great Pyramids.
We got to listen to this.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, Steve did a great job,
Chris, with the sound acoustics
there.
But what does that mean?
>>DUNN: Well, to me it just
represents the phenomena
that you find inside
the Great Pyramid.
>>NOORY: I mean, did you hear
that in the Great Pyramid?
>>DUNN: Yes.
Yeah.
In 1995, I paid to be left
alone in the king's chamber
and have the lights turned off.
>>NOORY: How much do you
have to pay for that?
>>DUNN: It was about
$50 at the time.
>>NOORY: That's it?
>>DUNN: It would be a
little more than that now.
>>NOORY: I'd pay 100 to be left
alone in the Great Pyramid.
>>DUNN: Yeah.
So I had a couple of hours
there after all the tourists
had left.
>>NOORY: So all right.
So you were in there alone.
>>DUNN: And I had
a tape recorder.
And I had an RF meter.
So I was actually
seeing if there
was a response from the granite
and the radio frequency ranges.
>>NOORY: And you picked
up similar kinds of tones?
>>DUNN: Oh, yes.
I mean, the
reverberation in that.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>DUNN: But the
amazing thing is they
hadn't turned the lights off.
And I was getting impatient.
So I walked through the
entrance-- but you don't walk.
You crawl through
the passageway--
>>NOORY: It's that narrow?
>>DUNN: --leading to the
Grand Gallery, right?
And I stood on top
of the step there.
And I yelled down, hey,
turn off the lights, please!
And then I scurried back up
through the passage, back
into the king's
chamber and walked up
to where my equipment was.
And then suddenly,
the lights were off.
>>NOORY: Can you imagine the
engineering behind this to--
>>DUNN: Yes, I can imagine it.
>>NOORY: --put
all this together?
>>DUNN: Yeah, I can imagine it.
Yes.
It's very complex.
And there's nothing
out of place.
Nothing was done accidentally.
I mean, it was all
perfectly engineered.
I mean, there are
mistakes in manufacturing.
You see where there
are machine mistakes.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>DUNN: But as far as a system
itself, It's pretty perfect.
>>NOORY: Is there
any research going
on right now investigating this?
>>DUNN: Yes.
And the amazing thing is that
of late, some of that research
is directly related to the
theory in the Giza power plant.
One of the areas of research
is the Scan Pyramid project.
That's where they are actually
using or detecting muons--
particles from space-- as they
come through the Great Pyramid
to see if there are any open
spaces or any chambers that
have been previously
undiscovered.
And they found a space right
above the Grand Gallery.
It's about 100 feet
long, I would guess.
>>NOORY: That's huge.
>>DUNN: It's huge.
But it's right near
where the northern shaft.
And so a very good friend of
mine when he was a aerospace
engineer--
when he saw that, he
said, well, finally, they
have discovered
the preamp that you
need in order for your
power plant theory to work.
And so he had--
I had doubts about how the
power plant theory would
work without a preamp.
>>NOORY: Not anymore.
>>DUNN: The location
of this space.
All they would need
for a preamp is
to have quartz crystals
filled with quartz crystal
sand and then some
kind of a connector
to connect with the energy
coming, going through.
The signal comes from space.
So that would actually
amplify the signal
and amplify the effects
in the king's chamber.
>>NOORY: Chris, are the Pyramids
of Giza all connected somehow?
>>DUNN: Yes, I believe so.
I believe they are.
I believe they're
connected acoustically.
And they have
particular frequencies.
>>NOORY: There's no
underground wires or anything
like that connected?
>>DUNN: Well, I mean, there have
been reports of wires found.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>DUNN: I think
when Napoleon was--
>>NOORY: Shooting
them up, right?
>>DUNN: His events--
wrote about some wires
in the Great Pyramid, but
trying to find the source
material where that was actually
discussed is very difficult.
>>NOORY: That would be
amazing if we could find that.
>>DUNN: Yeah, I
haven't found that.
But a friend of mine who
is a sound engineer--
he's done studies
in other pyramids
in terms of the frequencies.
And their frequencies are
generally harmonically coupled.
The whole series of pyramids
is definitely linked together.
>>NOORY: What does all
this do to us today
if your theory is
proven to be correct?
And it very well may be, but
that it was a power plant.
It is a power plant.
And that perhaps it was used by
a very advanced civilization,
whether they came from outer
space or not, not the point.
But what happens to us
as a society when we
realize that you were correct?
>>DUNN: I think the
only way that it
would be globally recognized
that the theory is
correct is if we were
able to replicate it.
So there's always going to be
some people who are closed off
to the idea, and that's normal.
But I think actually
replicating it--
I mean, there's even more
information coming through.
It's not just the Scan
Pyramid project, which
is a very interesting project.
And it's really
amazing, though, as far
as the stakeholders who
are backing that funding.
They're all scientific
institutes--
high energy physics in Japan.
>>NOORY: What do
they want to know?
What do they want to know?
>>DUNN: If you talk to a
really wonderful director
of the Great Pyramid,
Ahmed El Guindi,
people say they are
looking for Khufu's tomb.
>>NOORY: Yeah, right.
Big discovery that
would be, right?
>>DUNN: Right.
So everybody is looking
for Khufu's tomb,
but they're throwing
a lot of money at it.
But there's another
area of research
which I find very exciting.
And that is the research
of a physicist at NASA.
His name is Dr.
Friedemann Freund.
And he has been
conducting research
into earthquake
lights since 1997.
>>NOORY: Right.
They do give off plasma
lights, they say.
>>DUNN: And he's actually
studied the underlying physics
on what actually creates this.
And it comes to be that rock--
granite will-- electrons
will flow if it's stressed.
And it doesn't really
take that much movement
in the rock for electrons to
flow and just like a foot stump
would do it.
So it only has to
move an extra little,
and then you've got
electromagnetic flow.
So when he's looking at
the earthquake prediction
where you can actually-- by
looking at earthquake light,
so the activity of
electromagnetic energy
on these high points.
>>NOORY: Are these plasma
balls we hear so much about?
>>DUNN: Well, that's
a part of it, too.
And I actually addressed
that in my book.
Because when you talk about--
a lot of people look
at them as being UFOs.
I think that
scientists dismiss that
and say, well, it's just
electromagnetic energy,
ionizing gases seeping
through the rock.
And they may be right.
But the bottom line
is that that electron
flow, that electromagnetic
energy does exist.
>>NOORY: Since the
publication of your book,
has there been
any other evidence
to talk about your theories,
the shaft theory that
would help back some of this?
>>DUNN: Yes.
Actually, I think the last
one of the times we talked,
we were talking about what
lay behind Gantenbrink's door.
Right.
And I think that first
exploration was 2002.
>>NOORY: That's the
long shaft, right?
>>DUNN: Right.
It's the long shaft.
It goes from the
queen's chamber.
Originally, the shaft was
closed off from the chamber.
It wasn't completed.
And it wasn't until 1872.
Wayman Dixon actually discovered
the void behind the wall
and chiseled out the limestone
to open up the shaft.
And then it wasn't until
1993 when Rudolf Gantenbrink,
a German robotics engineer--
he built a robot.
They called it Upuaut 2.
And he sent the robot up
there at the southern shaft.
And for the first
time in history,
we were able to see
what was at the end
of this particular shaft.
>>NOORY: I guess that's what
they drilled a hole for, too,
right?
>>DUNN: Yes, that came later.
But Gantenbrink first
discovered what they
called the Gantenbrink's door.
Well, the shaft is
8 inches square.
So I mean, a door for what?
A rat or a mouse?
But it's not a door.
It's just a block.
In fact, Gantenbrink comes--
>>NOORY: How long was it?
>>DUNN: Hm?
>>NOORY: How long is the shaft?
>>DUNN: About 200 feet.
>>NOORY: 200 feet?
>>DUNN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: So there's got
to be a purpose for it.
>>DUNN: Well, I proposed
in the "Giza Power Plant"
that it delivered chemicals
to the queen's chamber.
Both the north and south
shaft delivered chemicals
to the queen's chamber that
mixed in boiled off hydrogen.
And hydrogen was
used in the process
of generating electricity.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>DUNN: Yeah.
There has been two
expeditions of the shafts
in the queen's chamber.
And in 2002, they
drilled a hole into it.
And what they found--
>>NOORY: They stuck a little
camera through it, right?
>>DUNN: Yeah, they just--
they sent an endoscope camera.
The camera had some limitations.
I mean, basically, it
just had a straight shot.
They couldn't look up,
or down, or around,
so it just looked
straight ahead.
And they showed
another blockage.
Now, in 2010, another team--
they built a robot
they called the Djedi.
The one in 2002-- they
called it the Pyramid Rover,
but the Djedi--
>>NOORY: Got better, right?
>>DUNN: Yeah, they had a
little more sophistication.
And it was able to
articulate a camera
on the backside of this
blockage and look behind.
And so what they
found when they--
>>NOORY: Came back.
>>DUNN: The camera picked up.
What happened-- the backside
of the block and the metal
fittings that I proposed
were electrodes.
And it's a very unique design.
And so I actually built a model
of the Gantenbrink's door.
>>NOORY: Matched it up?
>>DUNN: Matched it
up and demonstrated
how I thought it would work.
And it worked.
Actually, I did that for
the show "Ancient Aliens."
>>NOORY: Yeah, I saw that part.
>>DUNN: Yeah, but
that was interesting.
>>NOORY: Our colleague,
Graham Hancock,
talks a little bit
about these shafts.
Listen to this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Along a horizontal passage
that leads you to the so-called
queen's chamber.
We don't know what the
builders of these pyramids
called these chambers.
All these names are
modern attributions.
Let's just take a quick look
inside the queen's chamber.
There's these
curious little shafts
in the walls of the
queen's chamber.
Up until the 1870s, this
shaft was not visible.
It was covered by
a block of stone.
When they completed the
chamber, they closed it.
But a British freemason
called Wayman Dixon, who'd
noticed that there were shafts
in the chamber above the king's
chamber, wondered
if there might be
shafts in the queen's chamber.
And he went around
tapping the walls.
And he found these hollow
points, cut out the stone.
And sure enough,
there's these shafts.
And my friend, Robert
Bauval, has established
the astronomical connections
with these shafts,
that the queen's chamber shafts
point to the southern shaft.
This one points to Sirius.
And the northern shaft
points to Beta Ursa Minor--
very curious thing,
especially since these shafts
actually do not exit on
the outside of the pyramid.
The ones from the king's chamber
do, but these ones don't.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So these shafts--
some believe that
they may have been
used to point to star
systems and things like that.
What do you think of that?
>>DUNN: I really
don't agree with that.
I mean, it's possible
that the designer when
they're designing a building
may put something symbolic
in there.
>>NOORY: Right.
There's got to be
another purpose.
>>DUNN: But as far as them being
built just for that purpose--
I really don't agree with that.
>>NOORY: And what about
the northern shaft?
What do you think
that was used for?
Same thing?
The transfer?
>>DUNN: In the queen's chambers,
specifically the same thing.
And that's the other
interesting thing
about the difference
between the metal fittings
that you find in the
northern shaft and those
that you find in
the southern shaft.
In the southern shaft,
you find that the fittings
are heavily eroded, almost down
to a very, very thin point,
which signifies the use of
some kind of corrosive, which
I actually proposed
that they were
using dilute hydrochloric acid.
In the northern
shaft, you have--
>>NOORY: How did
they do this stuff?
>>DUNN: One of the metal
fittings that was--
it looks like it has a
wide white coat on it,
like it was-- been
electroplated.
And so that makes a lot
of sense when it comes
to the proposed use of them.
In fact, I think that's
like smoking gun evidence
to prove it.
And then the other
thing when you
look at behind the
Gantenbrink's so-called door
and you look at the electrodes
or the metal fittings
as they come through
the back of the block,
you see corrosion on one of
them and not on the other.
And so that's like the
poles on a battery.
You would have--
>>NOORY: One is used
for certain things.
>>DUNN: Right.
So the actual flow of
electricity from one
to the other creates that.
>>NOORY: The
engineering behind this
must have been unbelievable.
>>DUNN: Yes.
I mean, it's very
well thought out,
even down to those
copper fittings, which
it became clear to me
when I saw the evidence
that the Djedi revealed.
It became clear to
me that they had
to have some means of
servicing that area
and replacing those electrodes.
So I'm still waiting
for more discoveries
inside the Great Pyramid, such
as interior passageways where
maintenance workers
could go up there.
And then also, behind
that so-called door,
you have these marks that
are painted on the floor.
>>NOORY: Which represent
what, in your opinion?
>>DUNN: Yeah.
To me, they are
electrical symbols.
You have a very
clear image of what
we call a twisted pair where
you have a cable and two
wires coming out of it.
And then you have--
>>NOORY: Hooked up to something?
>>DUNN: Yeah, exactly.
And then even
identifying the polarity
of the wiring for
that particular door.
>>NOORY: Does the old
Egyptian antiquities director
Zahi Hawass, who is
not part of it anymore,
know about all this stuff, too?
>>DUNN: I mean, the
information is available.
I haven't had any really
in-depth conversations
with Zahi about the technology.
He's always presented
a negative--
>>NOORY: About anything--
>>DUNN: --opinion about--
>>NOORY: --beyond
extraterrestrial
and everything else.
Egyptians' tombs.
>>DUNN: And he is far from
not being involved now.
I mean, he is definitely.
>>NOORY: Has he gotten back in?
>>DUNN: Yeah, he still
has a lot of authority.
>>NOORY: Well,
there was a moment
after Mubarak got tossed out
that Zahi's career was over.
So he's made his way
back in again, huh?
>>DUNN: Yeah.
I think the Egyptians
and a lot of people
see his value in
attracting tourism.
>>NOORY: What is the
fluid switch, Chris?
>>DUNN: That's what
we're talking about.
>>NOORY: That is what it is?
>>DUNN: Down to the green door.
Yeah.
Yeah, the fluid switch.
Because the way it
functions is in order
to be able to determine or
be assured that you have
a particular rate of
flow into the chamber,
then you need to know what
the head pressure is, so--
>>NOORY: Interesting.
OK.
>>DUNN: If the level of the
fluid gets down too far,
then your flow is going to
be diminished a little bit.
>>NOORY: And your
power goes down.
>>DUNN: Right.
So when the fluid
drops and then it
breaks continuity between
the two electrodes,
then that signal for the pumping
of more fluid into the shaft.
>>NOORY: Where would the
fluid come from originally?
Would they bring it in?
>>DUNN: Yeah, I mean, they'd
pump it up from a chamber
underneath, probably.
>>NOORY: A tank
full of it, maybe?
>>DUNN: If you go on the east
side of the Great Pyramid,
there are some very
deep shafts going down.
There's one close to the
pyramid that is very curious.
I don't think it's been
fully investigated yet.
But it's a shaft that
has two sides to it.
And that's out on the east side.
And then on the south side, you
have some vertical shafts, too.
So it's possible
that they may have
been able to just feed the
chemical from the outside
of the Great Pyramid.
And it would be directed through
conduits from the outside.
>>NOORY: What is the Scan
Pyramid mission, Chris?
>>DUNN: That's a consortium
of scientists or scientific
institutions that are using
muons to detect voyage--
>>NOORY: That's what
you were mentioning?
>>DUNN: Yeah, within
the Great Pyramid.
>>NOORY: Are they ongoing
with this mission?
>>DUNN: They're ongoing.
Yes.
I was there.
An interesting story--
in 2019, I led a tour.
And I had an aerospace engineer.
And he's with some other folks,
about three or four of them.
We were at Aswan.
And they decided
that they wanted
to cut their visit
to Aswan short,
because the Red Hot
Chili Peppers were
playing at the Giza Plateau.
>>NOORY: They wanted
to see that, huh?
>>DUNN: So they wanted to go
see the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
Unfortunately for them, el-Sisi,
the president, was in Aswan,
and security was really tight.
And so their flight
arrived late.
And they didn't
get to the plateau
until the end of the concert.
But the director of
the Great Pyramid,
who is just a wonderful,
wonderful man--
he felt sorry for Eric.
And he said, hey,
the Scan Pyramid
team are going to
be here tomorrow
if you want to join them.
And I'll introduce you to them.
Eric says, yeah, I'll be there.
So he's up there at 7 o'clock.
And then I actually
assisted them
in repairing some
of the equipment.
They had some wiring
issues, I guess.
>>NOORY: We've got
some video I want
you to look at about the Ancient
Architects channel explaining
more about what scientists
have been doing.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Scientists have discovered
that the Great Pyramid of Egypt
concentrates
electromagnetic energy
into its internal chambers
and below its base.
And now, scientists
are wondering
if this incredible
discovery can be recreated
on a nanoscale size, which could
lead to more efficient sensors
and solar cells.
Its ability to concentrate
electric and magnetic energy
was discovered by a team of
researchers led by scientists
from ITMO University in the
Russian city of St. Petersburg.
They created a
model of the pyramid
to measure its
electromagnetic response.
It was used to see how wave
energy is scattered or absorbed
by the pyramid.
And the group
tested interactions
with waves of resonant length
ranging from 200 meters
to 600 meters Dr.
Andrey Evlyukhin,
scientific supervisor and
coordinator of the research,
said Egyptian
pyramids have always
attracted great attention.
We as scientists were
interested in them as well.
So we decided to look at the
Great Pyramid as a particle,
dissipating radio
waves resonantly.
Given the lack of reliable
information about the pyramid's
properties, the
team says they had
to fill in the blanks
for some factors.
Andrey continued, we
assumed that there
was no unknown cavities inside,
and that the building material
has the properties of
an ordinary limestone
and is evenly distributed
in and out of the pyramid.
With these assumptions made,
we obtained interesting results
that can find important
practical applications.
The scientists used multiple
analysis, a method widely used
in physics to study
the interaction
between a complex object
and an electromagnetic field
to reveal how the
pyramid concentrates
electromagnetic energy into
its underground chambers.
But still, the
mainstream media are
reporting that these
new findings are
a quirk of the design,
an accidental byproduct
of the so-called ancient tomb,
which I must disagree with.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: A quirk of the design?
How can that be?
>>DUNN: I don't know.
The things that come out
of some people's mouth is--
>>NOORY: I don't think you
agree with that, do you?
>>DUNN: No.
No.
I mean, I think the study is
valid, and it's significant.
It's certainly very
significant to my work.
And after that study
came out, I was
receiving many, many emails.
So, well, it looks like
you've been vindicated.
And of course, I say,
well, not necessarily.
Maybe.
Not fully.
I mean, that is a part
of it that excites people
and if it brings
people's attention.
But the real nuts
and bolts of it
are in the design of the
structure, the acoustics,
the movement of sound,
the creation of gases,
and that whole system
working together,
the electromagnetic signature
of pyramids in general.
That's not surprising at all.
I don't know why
anybody would deny that.
>>NOORY: How much, in
terms of a percent,
do you think the
pyramids that are there
to prevent earthquakes
in that region
and that's their primary
mission and source?
>>DUNN: I think if we
were to go down that path,
it would be a
primary focus for us.
When you look at all
the pyramids in Egypt,
you have many different
interior designs.
But fundamentally,
what they have is
they're a pyramid shape.
And they have a downward
shaft to a bedrock chain,
but that's typical
for all of them.
And so I think the
fundamental purpose
for harmonizing the
plates of the planet
is the most
significant part of it.
And also, because
it's using harmonics.
And it's actually working
with Earth energies.
Then the people in
the area are going
to be affected by it, too.
Because we're all--
how we resonate,
we resonate with
frequencies, too.
>>NOORY: Have seismologists
talked to you about this,
about this possibility that the
power source of the pyramids
is preventing earthquakes
in that region?
I can't remember a--
>>DUNN: No.
>>NOORY: --big
earthquake in that area.
>>DUNN: Well, I
mean, the pyramids
are not functioning as
they used to right now.
>>NOORY: OK, so it's
like dead right now.
>>DUNN: Yeah, they're
shut down right now,
but there has been some studies.
I mean, the Russians
did some studies
on trying to obviate
earthquakes by actually drilling
a hole into a subduction--
near a subduction zone
and letting off many, many
explosions or charges down.
And they found that they
were able to move the plates
smoothly over the subduction.
>>NOORY: Tectonic plates.
>>DUNN: Right.
Yeah.
Yeah, rather than stay combined
and then suddenly break loose.
>>NOORY: Do we know enough about
the Great Pyramids to power
it up again?
Can we do that?
>>DUNN: I don't think the
Great Pyramid in Egypt--
I don't think we
could get that built.
>>NOORY: We couldn't
get it running again.
>>DUNN: No, I think
we would have to--
>>NOORY: It's like a
car engine that's gone.
>>DUNN: --use that as a model,
and work out the science,
and build our own.
That's what I would recommend.
>>NOORY: When you look at
all the many pyramids around
the planet, do they all
have, in your opinion,
the same purpose--
they're power sources
to prevent earthquakes?
>>DUNN: I think that's
a little overly broad.
I mean, I can't really say
with complete confidence
that that's the case.
They do seem to have this conic
connection with each other.
I mean, if you look at the
way they are positioned
and their alignment with other
structures, other pyramids,
and even standing
stones, it does
seem like this
ancient culture were
very knowledgeable
of Earth energies
and working with Earth energies.
>>NOORY: All around the planet.
>>DUNN: All around the planet.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Somebody taught this.
>>DUNN: And they also had a high
level of manufacturing prowess,
too.
So for acquiring and cutting
stone very precisely,
they were masters at that.
>>NOORY: If ETs came
down and said, look,
this is a ley line here, put
them here, here, here, here,
here, they'd know
how to do that right?
The extraterrestrials?
Simple.
>>DUNN: We may assume
that, but I don't know.
I think if they
had the instruments
where they could actually
determine or detect
where the power places
are, then they can say,
yes, you'd maximize the
output of this system
if you placed it in
this spot like at Giza.
One of the things about Earth
energy is earthquake lights.
There has been a study
done on the placement
of old monasteries and old
cathedrals, that they seem--
>>NOORY: And they run
on acoustics, too.
>>DUNN: Yeah, they seem to be
located in areas where there is
an abundance of this--
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>DUNN: --terrestrial
energy being gathered.
>>NOORY: You're on to
something, Mr. Dunn.
You have been for years.
>>DUNN: Yeah, I haven't
let that tiger go yet,
but it's been quite a ride.
>>NOORY: What are you
working on now these days?
>>DUNN: I'm actually working
on an old theater in Danville,
Illinois.
>>NOORY: Oh, are you?
>>DUNN: Yeah, we restored
a classic opera house.
It was built in 1884.
>>NOORY: How many seats?
>>DUNN: 900 seats.
>>NOORY: Chris, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>DUNN: My pleasure.
>>NOORY: Chris Dunn.
We can always count on Chris to
bring us the latest information
on the mysterious
pyramids, which
continue to reveal
their secrets to those
who know where to look.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]